The Polar Express  by Chris Van Allsburg.

On Christmas Eve, many years ago, I lay quietly in my bed.  I did not rustle the sheets.  I breathed slowly and silently.  I was listening for a sound – a sound a friend had told me I’d never hear- the ringing bells of Santa’s sleigh.

“There is no Santa,” my friend had insisted, but I knew he was wrong.

Late that night I did hear sounds, though not of ringing bells.  From outside came the sounds of hissing steam and squeaking metal.  I looked through my window and saw a train standing perfectly still in front of my house.

It was wrapped in an apron of steam.  Snowflakes fell lightly around it.  A conductor stood at the open door of one of the cars.  He took a large pocket watch from his vest, then looked up at my window.  I put on my slippers and robe.  I tiptoed downstairs and out the door.

“All aboard,” the conductor cried out.  I ran up to him. 

“Well, he said, “are you coming?”

“Where?” I asked.

“Why to the North Pole of course,” was his answer.  “This is the Polar Express.”  I took his outstretched hand and he pulled me aboard.

The train was filled with other children, all in their pajamas and nightgowns.  We sang Christmas carols and ate candies with nougat centers as white as snow.  We drank hot cocoa as thick and rich as melted chocolate bars.  Outside, the lights of towns and villages flickered in the distance as the Polar Express raced northward.

Soon there were no more lights to be seen.  We traveled through cold, dark forests, where lean wolves roamed and white-tailed rabbits hid from our train as it thundered through the quiet wilderness.

We climbed mountains so high it seemed as if we would scrape the moon.  But the Polar Express never slowed down.  Faster and faster we ran along, rolling over peaks and through valleys like a car on a roller coaster. 

The mountains turned into hills, the hills to snow-covered plains.  We crossed a barren desert of ice—the Great Polar Ice Cap.  Lights appeared in the distance.  They looked like the lights of a strange ocean liner sailing on a frozen sea.  “There,” said the conductor, “is the North Pole.”

The North Pole.  It was a huge city standing alone at the top of the world, filled with factories where every Christmas toy was made.

At first we saw no elves.

“They are gathering at the center of the city,” the conductor told us.  “That is where Santa will give the first gift of Christmas.”

“Who receives the first gift?” we all asked.

“He will choose one of you.”

“Look,” shouted one of the children,“the elves.”  Outside we saw hundreds of elves.  As our train drew closer to the center of the North Pole, we slowed to a crawl, so crowded were the streets with Santa’s helpers.  When the Polar Express could go no farther, we stopped and the conductor led us outside.

We pressed through the crowd to the edge of a large, open circle.  In front of us stood Santa’s sleigh.  The reindeer were excited.  They pranced and paced, ringing the silver sleigh bells that hung from their harnesses.  It was a magical sound, like nothing I’d ever heard.  Across the circle, the elves moved apart and Santa Claus appeared.  The elves cheered wildly.

He marched over to us and, pointing to me, said, “Let’s have this fellow here”  He jumped into his sleigh.  The conductor handed me up.  I sat on Santa’s knee and he asked, “Now, what would you like for Christmas?”